>> Kent C. Dodds: State reducer,
one of my favorite patterns ever,
I love this pattern.
So this is actually,
incidentally this is a common pattern in
React redux or sorry react reason,
reason-react, that's what it's called.
So like all components have this
concept of a state reducer.
I discovered it, I didn't invent it, but I
discovered it trying to solve a problem in
downshift where people needed
to be able to control state but
in a simpler way than control props
which we'll learn about later.
But a state reducer,
if I render prop is responsible or
enables users to control
how things are rendered.
A state reducer enables people
to control how the logic works,
how the state is managed and so
it actually has nothing to do with Redux.
The only similarity is
the fact that the API for
your reducer is a reducer like
function state and then your changes.
But other than that, it's just reducer is
a computer science topic, not Redux thing.
So, here's the problem that
we're trying to solve,
let's pop open the state
reducers examples.
So, here we've got this situation where I
wanna be able to control how
many times somebody clicks.
They can't click more than four times,
if they do, I'll say well,
you clicked too much,
I will disallow any more changes
until you say reset, and
then I will let more happen, okay?
Try again, it's like no,
you clicked too much.
So that's what we're trying to do,
we're trying to jump into the toggle and
say hey, based on my own state
I don't want you to update your
state after this certain point or I want
to control how you're updating your state.
So the implementation of this
is a little intrusive on
how you implement the toggle component.
You have to think more critically
about how you're updating state,
because now the internal state of your
component is actually part of the API that
you're providing.
Because you want people to be able to
control how that state's being updated.
So it kinda breaks encapsulation,
some of these things, but
what it allows is a huge amount of
flexibility from the user standpoint.
So a little extra complication on
implementation side, allowing for
an enormous amount of flexibility
on the user side is a win for me.
Especially if that means the alternative
would be even more complication
on the implementation side anyway.
So, let's look at the code for
how this is being used.
It's a little bit bigger
of a usage example.
So this usage has some state, keeps
track of how many times you're clicking.
And we have an on toggle handler,
handleToggle, that will update the state,
incrementing the times clicked.
And then, yeah, just this handle
reset that doesn't really matter for
your specific use cases here,
and then the toggleStateReducer.
So this is the reducer function that
people are gonna be passing to you and
you need to call this before
you actually set state.
Okay, so toggle accepts that
state reducer prop, and
it's going to call the function
with all of the state,
the current state of the toggle,
and then the proposed changes.
So these are the things, I'm updating
the on state from true to false.
And so like what this will look like
is on is true when it's called.
And so then inside of this state reducer,
we gonna say,
okay if on my own stake,
if they have clicked more than or
equal to 4 times,
then I'm gonna let you finish, but
first I want to make sure that the on
state never changes from false.
So feel free to update any other
state that you have internally, but
the on state should
never change from false.
It should always be false.
And your toggle components is
gonna continue the state stuff and
it's gonna use this to
set the state instead.
And then it'll, yeah,
the on state will never change from false
until this says it's okay to do that.
So one tip is, because this needs to have,
in our case right here we
don't actually need the state.
But some toggle state reducers might need
to reference some other pieces of state.
So this is why it's a state reducer,
is it accepts the false state object and
the changes.
So because it needs to have the current
state of the toggle component,
you're gonna need to call this
function within a set state updater.
So you'll say this.set State, updater
function and within that function you'll
call this state reducer, so you can
pass the full state shape or object.
Okay, and all those changes are gonna
need to happen right in here,
in a new function you'll create and then
you'll make some updates to existing code.